Input

Type

Default

Description

bit1 ... bit12 (b)

+

minimum (m)

0.0

This sets the lower bound of the output range, i.e. the value that the bit sequence 000000000000 will produce.

maximum (x)

1.0

This sets the upper bound of the output value, i.e. the value that the bit sequence 111111111111 will produce.

Output
output (o)

DROID manual for blue-6

Type

The 12 bit input bits. bit1 is the MSB – the most signiﬁcant bit. The LSB (least signiﬁcant bit) is the highest input that
you actually patch.

Description
Output signal.

178

Table of contents at page 2

16.18

delay – A tape delay for CVs, gates and numbers

Use this circuit to delay the movement CVs,
gates or integer numbers in time. The usage is very simple. Feed input signals into
the circuit, set a delay time and these signals are output again delayed by that time.
Note: This circuit is still experimental. In a future firmware
version it might be changed or removed. Also the file format on the SD card for the saved recordings might change
and a new version might not be able to load old recordings.
The basic usage of the delay is very simple:

…gateout8 for this purpose:
[delay]
gatein1 = G1
gatein2 = G2
gatein3 = G3
gatein4 = G4
gateout1 = G5
gateout2 = G6
gateout3 = G7
gateout4 = G8
delay = 0.5

The track with the eight gates records just 0 and 1. Any
other value will be squeezed into that format: values below 0.1 (1 V) are considered 0, all other values 1.

[delay]
cvin = I1
cvout = O1
delay = 0.5

Now the gate patterns at the inputs G1 through G4 appears time shifted by 0.5 seconds at the outputs G5
through G8.

Here the signal from I1 is output again at O1 with a delay
of 0.5 seconds.

Technical background and limitations

You can make the delay time depend on the speed of a
clock signal. just feed a steady clock into clock. Now the
delay parameter is measured in clock ticks – not in seconds anymore.

The two circuits recorder (see page 341) and delay (see
page 179) are based on the same implementation of a virtual tape. This virtual tape has three tracks with three
recording and playback heads:

[delay]
cvin = I1
cvout = O1
clock = G1 # input clock
delay = 4 # delay by 4 ticks

Use as a trigger delay
Alongside the continous CV, eight gate signals can be fed
through the delay. Use gatein1 …gatein8 and gateout1
DROID manual for blue-6

Note: The dynamich range of CV signal on the tape is just
-1 …+1 (or −10 V …+10V). Any “too hot” signal is clipped
to that range. The internal resolution of the CV is 16 bit
(precisly: one Volt is divided in 3200 steps). If you need a
larger range, you need to divide the input signal and multiply the output signal by some factor, but loose a bit precision that way.

1. One head for recording a continous CV in the range
−1 …+1 (which is −10 V …10 V)
2. One head for recording eight gate tracks in parallel
(CVs where just 0 and 1 is recorded)
3. One head for recording a discrete integer number
in the range 0 …255
All these are recorded in parallel, so for example it’s easy
to record a CV/gate signal with just one cvrecorder. The
discrete number is useful for recording the outputs of
buttongroup (see page 146) circuits or the switches on
the S10 similar things.
179

In order to use the RAM of the
as efﬁcient as possible (and allow for many multiple instances of these circuits), the tape uses just 256 samples. Each time the
state of one of the gates or the value of the number
changes, a new sample is created. A change in the input
CV is handled more intelligently as the CV values of the
samples or interpolated linearily. The maximum error between the interpolated value and the actual stored CV is
limited to 0.0001 (which is 1 mV).
If the input CV is more chaotic, however, the number of
samples per time is limited to an average of one sample every 20 ms, while short periods with up to 10 samples without this limitations are allowed. This ensures
that the minimum recordable tape length is 256 × 20 ms,
which is 5.12 seconds. Usually CVs are not so chaotic but
either stepped or moving smoothly, so the recordings can
be much longer.
If you have the special case of a stepped input CV – such
as the output from a sequencer or from a CV/gate keyboard – you can switch to an alternative mode. Patch the
gate output of the sequencer or keyboard into the sample
input of the circuit. This enables the “triggered mode”.
Here a new sample is just and only created at each posi-

Table of contents at page 2

tive gate edge of the sample input. So the recordings can
be as long as 256 notes.
Note: That way you would loose the gate length, since
the end of the gate does not trigger a new sample. Use
the gatetool (see page 235) with the inputgate and
outputedge to get one trigger at each edge and feed that
into sample.

Saving the tape to disk
The delay does not support presets because of memory
limitations. But you can save the current contents of the
tape to your SD card. This is done by the two trigger inputs save and load, which are usually mapped to some
buttons. Here is a simple example.
[delay]
save = B1.5
load = B1.6
...

Input

If you hit button B1.5, the ﬁle tape0001.bin is created
on your SD card. Button B1.6 loads that ﬁle into the circuit.

patches. A recording of the recorer circuit can be loaded
with every recorder or delay circuit.

You can use any ﬁle number from 1 to 9999 by using the
parameter filenumber. You might want to map that to a
rotary switch of an S10:

Loading and saving

[delay]
save = B1.5
load = B1.6
filenumber = S2.1
...

Note: Loading and saving is done in real time from/to
your SD card. The ﬁles are very small, but the operation
can take a small number of milliseconds. During that time
no circuit will do its job. And if your SD card is missing,
things lag a bit more due to timeouts.

You might wonder, why this circuit offers loading and
saving of the tape’s content to the SD card. The reason
is not because it’s super useful but because delay uses
the same tape implementation as recorder and saving is
part of that.
When you load a ﬁle into the tape, it’s contents will be
audible for a short time. But soon after the tape is overwritten with the new incoming data.
Saving might make more sense. You could make a snapshot of the tape’s content and load that into a recorder
(see page 341) for playback. But even that doesn’t seem
to be game changing material.

One important difference to presets is that these ﬁles
can be share among circuits and even among different

Default

Description

delay (dl)

1.0

The CVs are delayed by this amount of seconds. If you patch clock as well, the delay is speciﬁed in clock tick, so then
delay = 1 means “delay by one clock tick”.

cvin (ci)

0.0

Continous input CV

numberin (ni)

Type

1 2 3

Discrete input number in the range 0 ... 255

gatein1 ... gatein8 (gi)

Input gates

clock (c)

If you use this clock input, all time inputs are measured in clock ticks instead of seconds.

sample (sm)

If you patch this input, “triggered” mode is enabled. In this mode, the virtual tape just records a new CV on each trigger
at sample. So it just records stepped CVs, no slopes and no CV changes between the triggers.

DROID manual for blue-6

180

Table of contents at page 2

