tive gate edge of the sample input. So the recordings can
be as long as 256 notes.
Note: That way you would loose the gate length, since
the end of the gate does not trigger a new sample. Use
the gatetool (see page 235) with the inputgate and
outputedge to get one trigger at each edge and feed that
into sample.

Saving the tape to disk
The delay does not support presets because of memory
limitations. But you can save the current contents of the
tape to your SD card. This is done by the two trigger inputs save and load, which are usually mapped to some
buttons. Here is a simple example.
[delay]
save = B1.5
load = B1.6
...

Input

If you hit button B1.5, the ﬁle tape0001.bin is created
on your SD card. Button B1.6 loads that ﬁle into the circuit.

patches. A recording of the recorer circuit can be loaded
with every recorder or delay circuit.

You can use any ﬁle number from 1 to 9999 by using the
parameter filenumber. You might want to map that to a
rotary switch of an S10:

Loading and saving

[delay]
save = B1.5
load = B1.6
filenumber = S2.1
...

Note: Loading and saving is done in real time from/to
your SD card. The ﬁles are very small, but the operation
can take a small number of milliseconds. During that time
no circuit will do its job. And if your SD card is missing,
things lag a bit more due to timeouts.

You might wonder, why this circuit offers loading and
saving of the tape’s content to the SD card. The reason
is not because it’s super useful but because delay uses
the same tape implementation as recorder and saving is
part of that.
When you load a ﬁle into the tape, it’s contents will be
audible for a short time. But soon after the tape is overwritten with the new incoming data.
Saving might make more sense. You could make a snapshot of the tape’s content and load that into a recorder
(see page 341) for playback. But even that doesn’t seem
to be game changing material.

One important difference to presets is that these ﬁles
can be share among circuits and even among different

Default

Description

delay (dl)

1.0

The CVs are delayed by this amount of seconds. If you patch clock as well, the delay is speciﬁed in clock tick, so then
delay = 1 means “delay by one clock tick”.

cvin (ci)

0.0

Continous input CV

numberin (ni)

Type

1 2 3

Discrete input number in the range 0 ... 255

gatein1 ... gatein8 (gi)

Input gates

clock (c)

If you use this clock input, all time inputs are measured in clock ticks instead of seconds.

sample (sm)

If you patch this input, “triggered” mode is enabled. In this mode, the virtual tape just records a new CV on each trigger
at sample. So it just records stepped CVs, no slopes and no CV changes between the triggers.

DROID manual for blue-6

180

Table of contents at page 2

Input

Type

timewindow (tw)

Default

Description

0.0

When in triggered mode, this optional parameter helps tackling a problem that many hardware sequencers show: often
their pitch CV is not at its ﬁnal destination value at the time their gate is being output. Often you see a very short “slew”
ramp of say 5 ms after the gate. During that time the pitch CV moves from its former to the new value.
Now if you trigger the cvtape circuit with the sequencer’s gate you will essentially sample the previous pitch CV instead
of the new one. Or maybe something in between.
The timewindow parameter conﬁgures a short time window after the trigger to trigger. During that time period the
tape will constantly adapt the last sample to a changed input CV. When that time is over, the input is ﬁnally frozen on
the tape.
The timewindow parameter is in seconds. So when you set timewindow to say 0.005 (which means 5 ms), you give the
input CV 5 ms time for settling to its ﬁnal value after a trigger to sample before freezing it.

bypass (b)

off

Setting bypass to on copies the input signals directly to the outputs, regardless of any other stuff going on.

save (sv)

Send a trigger here to save the current contents of the tape to a ﬁle on the SD card. The ﬁlename is tapeXXXX.bin,
where XXXX is replaced by the number set by filenumber.

load (ld)

Send a trigger here to load a previously saved ﬁle into the tape. Use filenumber so specify which ﬁle to load.

filenumber (f)

1 2 3

Output

Type

Number of the ﬁle to load or save. The range is 0 - 9999. If filenumber is 123, the name on the SD card is
tape0123.bin. These ﬁles are shared between all recorder and delay circuits.

Description
Output of the continous input CV

cvout (co)
numberout (no)

1

1 2 3

Output of the discrete number

gateout1 ... gateout8
(go)

Output of the gates

overflow (ov)

When the internal memory of the tape is exceeded and data got lost, this gate goes to 1 for 0.5 seconds. If you are
suspecting this situation, you can wire this output to an LED and observe the memory status that way.

DROID manual for blue-6

181

Table of contents at page 2

16.19

detune – Detune multiple voices in a most disharmonic way

Sometimes braking the harmony – at least
for some period of time – can be a way to
break through monotony. This circuit allows you to detune up to eight voices in a
most disharmonic way.
The application is simple. Before outputting your pitch
information from your sequencers, quantizers, chord
generators, arpeggiators and friends, feed them through
this circuit. Then use the CV input detune to select the
level of ugly detuning.

[detune]
detune = P1.1
input1 = _PITCH1 # from somewhere
input2 = _PITCH2 # from somewhere
input3 = _PITCH3 # from somewhere
input4 = _PITCH4 # from somewhere
input5 = _PITCH5 # from somewhere
output1 = O1
output2 = O2
output3 = O3
output4 = O4
output5 = O5

For a ﬁrst test, start with using a pot for the detune value:
The crux of the matter is that all of the voices are detuned
in realation to each other. This circuit makes sure that

Input

Type

Default

each of the eight outputs is detuned in a different way,
so if you input a chord, it won’t just simply move up and
down in pitch but gets distorted and disharmonic.
Hints:
• Try using a slow and slight bipolar triangle LFO.
• Try using an envelope with a short attack and a
longer release to detune at the start of every bar
and let the voices fade back into tune.
This detune algorithm is identical with that of the Sinfonion. Therefore it is a good match for the chaoticdetune
output of the circuit sinfonionlink (see page 353).

Description

input1 ... input8 (i)
detune (d)

0.0

tuningmode (tm)

0

While this is 1, the circuit will output the value set by tuningpitch instead of the actual pitch. This is ment to be a
help for tuning your VCOs.

0V

This pitch CV will be output while the tuning mode is active.

tuningpitch (tp)

Output

1V
Oct

Type

Description

output1 ... output8 (o)

DROID manual for blue-6

182

Table of contents at page 2

