Why? In order to optimize the execution speed of your
patch, several user interface circuits are executed at just
12.5% of the normal speed. This saves valuable time for
the execution of more time critical circuits. So instead of
checking pots at sub-millisecond intervals, your master
rather spends its time in executing your sequencers with
a timing as precise as possible.
This means, that pot, button, buttongroup and similar
circuits are executed just every 8th loop cycle.
If you experience any trouble with this “UI slowdown”,
you can disable it by using a droid (see page 183) circuit:
[droid]
uislowdown = 0

DROID manual for blue-6

332

Table of contents at page 2

Input

Type

Default

Description

pot (p)

0

0.0

Wire your pot here, e.g. P1.1

outputscale (os)

1.0

The ﬁnal output is multiplied with this value. It’s a convenient method for scaling up and down the pot range.

notch (no)

0.0

By setting this parameter to a positive number you create an artiﬁcial “notch” of that size. We suggest using 0.1 (or
10%. The maximum allowed value is 0.5. Greater values will be reduced to that. Note: Using this in combination with
outputscale also moves the notching point. E.g. with outputscale = 2 the notch will be at 1.0.

discrete (d)

1

Setting this value to 1 or larger switches the pot over to select a discrete integer number, rather than a continous value.
For example discrete = 5 makes the pot output one of the exact values 0, 1, 2, 3 or 4. This is ideal for selecting presets
and similar. If you enable ledgauge (highly recommended), it shows you the value by using the LEDs of the master in
an adapted way.

1 2 3

The maximum allowed number is 16.
When using discrete, the startvalue input is interpreted as a discrete number. So for example if you have discrete
= 5, you can use startvalue = 3 to set the selected value to the number 3 after a trigger to clear. A potential
outputscale is applied afterwards.
Notes: The options notch and slope do not work in discrete mode. outputscale is still applied, though. All outputs
other than output are dead and output 0.0. discrete = 1 does not really make sense, since there is just one value to
select from and the output will always be 0.0.
slope (sl)

DROID manual for blue-6

1.0

Changes the resolution of the pot in lower or higher ranges. Set slope to 2 or more, if you want small values near 0.0
to be “zoomed in”. Set slope to 0.5 or 0.3 if you want to zoom in value nears 1.0.

333

Table of contents at page 2

Input

Type

Default

+

ledgauge (g)

Description
The “LED gauge” uses the 16 LEDs of the MASTER in order to indicate the current value of the pot (not available on the
MASTER18). This is especially useful for “virtual” pots – i.e. those pots that you get when you use select in order to
layer several different functions onto one pot. In that situation the position of the physical pot can be different than
that of the virtual one, so the gauge shows you the effective virtual value.
Furthermore, by illuminating the inner four LEDs, the gauge shows when the pot hits exactly 0.5. This can only happen
if you use the notch parameter. Otherwise its practically impossible to hit exactly.
If you have a MASTER18, the gauge is displayed in the upper 16 LEDs of your ﬁrst B32, if you have one.
The LED gauge is automatically activated if you use select. If you don’t like the LED gauge, you can turn it off with
ledgauge = off. Otherwise ledgauge set’s the color of the indicator in the same way as the R-registers do and at the
same time enables the gauge even if you don’t use select.
Here are some color examples that you can use for the value of ledgauge:
0.2

cyan

0.4

green

0.6

yellow

0.73

orange

0.8

red

1.0

magenta

1.1

violet

1.2

blue

The colors repeat over in a kind of wheel at 1.2, so e.g. 1.4 creates the same color as 0.2.
startvalue (sv)

0

1

0.5

This parameter deﬁnes the value your pot will get when there is a trigger to clear. This is the value before outputscale
is applied.
If you use discrete, the parameter does not expect a fraction but a discrete number in the range of the discrete values
(0, 1, 2, etc.

DROID manual for blue-6

334

Table of contents at page 2

