Input

Type

Default

+

ledgauge (g)

Description
The “LED gauge” uses the 16 LEDs of the MASTER in order to indicate the current value of the pot (not available on the
MASTER18). This is especially useful for “virtual” pots – i.e. those pots that you get when you use select in order to
layer several different functions onto one pot. In that situation the position of the physical pot can be different than
that of the virtual one, so the gauge shows you the effective virtual value.
Furthermore, by illuminating the inner four LEDs, the gauge shows when the pot hits exactly 0.5. This can only happen
if you use the notch parameter. Otherwise its practically impossible to hit exactly.
If you have a MASTER18, the gauge is displayed in the upper 16 LEDs of your ﬁrst B32, if you have one.
The LED gauge is automatically activated if you use select. If you don’t like the LED gauge, you can turn it off with
ledgauge = off. Otherwise ledgauge set’s the color of the indicator in the same way as the R-registers do and at the
same time enables the gauge even if you don’t use select.
Here are some color examples that you can use for the value of ledgauge:
0.2

cyan

0.4

green

0.6

yellow

0.73

orange

0.8

red

1.0

magenta

1.1

violet

1.2

blue

The colors repeat over in a kind of wheel at 1.2, so e.g. 1.4 creates the same color as 0.2.
startvalue (sv)

0

1

0.5

This parameter deﬁnes the value your pot will get when there is a trigger to clear. This is the value before outputscale
is applied.
If you use discrete, the parameter does not expect a fraction but a discrete number in the range of the discrete values
(0, 1, 2, etc.

DROID manual for blue-6

334

Table of contents at page 2

Input

Type

Default

select (s)

1 2 3

+

selectat (sa)

1 2 3

+

preset (pr)

1 2 3

+

Description
The select input allows you to overlay buttons and LEDs with multiple functions. If you use this input, the circuit will
process the buttons and LEDs just as if select has a positive gate signal (usually you will select this to 1). Otherwise
it won’t touch them so they can be used by another circuit. Note: even if the circuit is currently not selected, it will
nevertheless work and process all its other inputs and its outputs (those that do not deal with buttons or LEDs) in a
normal way.
This input makes the select input more ﬂexible. Here you specify at which value select should select this circuit.
E.g. if selectat is 0, the circuit will be active if select is exactly 0 instead of a positive gate signal. In some cases this
is more conventient.
This is the preset number to save or to load. Note: the ﬁrst preset has the number 0, not 1! For the whole story on
presets please refer to page 21. This circuit has 16 presets, so this number ranges from 0 to 15.

loadpreset (lp)

A trigger here loads a preset. As a speciality you can use the trigger for selecting a preset at the same time.

savepreset (sp)

A trigger here saves a preset.

clear (cl)

A trigger here loads the default start state into the circuit. The presets are not affected, unless you use direct preset
switching with the preset input and without triggers. And that case the current preset is also cleared.

clearall (ca)

A trigger here loads the default start state into the circuit and into all of its presets.

dontsave (dos)

0

If you set this to 1, the state of the circuit will not saved to the SD card and not loaded from the SD card when the Droid
starts.

Output

Type

Description

output (o)

0

Your pot output comes here.

1

bipolar (b)

Optional output with a range from -1.0 to 1.0, where the center notch is at 0.0 (or from -outputscale to +outputscale
if that is used).

absbipolar (ab)

A variation of bipolar that always outputs a positive value, i.e. the pot will go 1 ... 0.5 ... 0 ... 0.5 ... 1 (if outputscale
is not used).

lefthalf (l)

This output allows you to split the pot into two hemispheres. Here you get outputscale ... 0.0 while the pot is in the
left half. In the middle and right of it you always get 0.

righthalf (r)

This is the same but for the right half. It outputs 0 while the pot is in the left half and 0.0 ... outputscale from the
middle to the fully right position.

lefthalfinv (li)

This outputs 1.0 - lefthalf, i.e. the value range 0.0 ... 1.0 ... 1.0 when the pot moves left → mid → right (and the
scaled by outputscale).

DROID manual for blue-6

335

Table of contents at page 2

Output

Type

Description

righthalfinv (ri)

This outputs 1.0 - righthalf, i.e. the value range 1.0 ... 1.0 ... 0.0 when the pot moves left → mid → right (and the
scaled by outputscale).

onchange (c)

This output emits a trigger whenever the pot is turned in either direction.

DROID manual for blue-6

336

Table of contents at page 2

