Output
gateoutput (go)

DROID manual for blue-6

Type

Description
The gate output.

352

Table of contents at page 2

16.62

sinfonionlink – Sync harmonic state from Sinfonion

This circuit allows you to sync the current harmonic state of a Sinfonion to your
MASTER18. This allows you to keep your
in sync with the current settings of
root, degree, mode, transpose, chaotic detune and harmonic shift of the Sinfonion. It also gives you
access to the Sinfonion’s clock as well as triggers for the
start of a sequence, bar or beat.
The ACL Sinfonion has a feature called Harmonic Sync.
It is used to connect two or more Sinfonions and share
the current harmonic state, so that all Sinfonions and all
voices of your modular play in relation to the same root
note and scale all the time. This sync is using a plain mono
patch cable and you can even use a long cable to sync with
your band mate.

output = O2
root = _ROOT
degree = _DEGREE

Notes:
• The MASTER18 can only receive the sync, not send
it (be a sync master). But it can remote control the
Sinfonion via various CVs, which needs more cables and CV outputs but covers the same functionality.
• Harmonic Sync allows for a 1:n communication.
You can use a passive mult to distribute the signal
to as many MASTER18 s and Sinfonions as you like.
• The MASTER does not have this circuit.

The input I1 of the MASTER18 is able to receive and intereprete this information and present it as outputs of
this circuit. This is how to set it up:
1. On your Sinfonion, set Out 1 to Sync Master.
2. Use a normal patch cable to connect the Sinfonion’s OUT 1 jack to the I1 jack of the MASTER18.
3. Add a sinfonionlink circuit to your patch.
4. Use the outputs of this circuit to provide your other
circuits with the information about the current harmonic situation such as the root note and the scale.
This is a basic example for using a Droid to add one more
quantizer to a Sinfonion:
[sinfonionlink]
root = _ROOT
degree = _DEGREE
[minifonion]
input = I1

DROID manual for blue-6

353

Table of contents at page 2

Output

Type

Description

root (ro)

1 2 3

The current root note as an integer number. C = 0, C♯ = 1, D = 2 and so on.

degree (dg)

1 2 3

The current scale (the Sinfonion uses the word degree for this). This is an integer number. If ﬁnd a list of all available
scales on page 107.

1V
Oct

The current global transposition of the Sinfonion. This is in 1V/Oct, so you can add it to your pitch whereever you
output one.

transpose (tr)

The current value of the chaotic detune. You can feed this into the detune input of the circuit detune (see page 182).

chaoticdetune (ch)
harmonicshift (has)

1 2 3

Harmonic shift is a feature of the Sinfonion that allows to reduce harmonic complexity via CV (or the builtin pots POT1
or POT2). The idea is that the more you rise the CV, the less complex scale notes are allowed.
This output gives you access to the current setting of harmonic shift of the Sinfonion. It is an integer number between
-7 and 7. You can directly feed it into the harmonicshift input of circuits like minifonion (see page 279), chord (see
page 154), arpeggio (see page 127) or motoquencer (see page 286). Harmonic shift is explained in detail in the manual
chapter of minifonion.

linkstate (ls)

Outputs 1 if the link to the Sinfonion is up and active, otherwise 0.

clock (c)

Gives you a copy of the Sinfonion’s clock input

reset (r)

Outputs a trigger whenever in Song mode the Sinfonion forwards to the ﬁrst bar of the song.

step (s)

Outputs a trigger for every step of a song.

beat (b)

Outputs a trigger for every beat (subdivision of a step).

DROID manual for blue-6

354

Table of contents at page 2

