Output

Type

Description

root (ro)

1 2 3

The current root note as an integer number. C = 0, C♯ = 1, D = 2 and so on.

degree (dg)

1 2 3

The current scale (the Sinfonion uses the word degree for this). This is an integer number. If ﬁnd a list of all available
scales on page 107.

1V
Oct

The current global transposition of the Sinfonion. This is in 1V/Oct, so you can add it to your pitch whereever you
output one.

transpose (tr)

The current value of the chaotic detune. You can feed this into the detune input of the circuit detune (see page 182).

chaoticdetune (ch)
harmonicshift (has)

1 2 3

Harmonic shift is a feature of the Sinfonion that allows to reduce harmonic complexity via CV (or the builtin pots POT1
or POT2). The idea is that the more you rise the CV, the less complex scale notes are allowed.
This output gives you access to the current setting of harmonic shift of the Sinfonion. It is an integer number between
-7 and 7. You can directly feed it into the harmonicshift input of circuits like minifonion (see page 279), chord (see
page 154), arpeggio (see page 127) or motoquencer (see page 286). Harmonic shift is explained in detail in the manual
chapter of minifonion.

linkstate (ls)

Outputs 1 if the link to the Sinfonion is up and active, otherwise 0.

clock (c)

Gives you a copy of the Sinfonion’s clock input

reset (r)

Outputs a trigger whenever in Song mode the Sinfonion forwards to the ﬁrst bar of the song.

step (s)

Outputs a trigger for every step of a song.

beat (b)

Outputs a trigger for every beat (subdivision of a step).

DROID manual for blue-6

354

Table of contents at page 2

slew – Slew limiter

This is the “classical” slew limit shape, which originates
from the (negative) exponential loading current of a capacitor. It is also the shape of a low pass ﬁlter that is
used for slew limiting. The slope is proportional to the
distance between the current and the target voltage. Or
in other words the voltage changes fast at the beginning
and slower at the end:

4

The S-curve – when applied to pitches – sounds different
than an exponential curve since it more reﬂects the way
e.g. a trombone player accelerates and deaccelerates his
arm in order to move to another pitch. In our algorithm
we assume that in the ﬁrst half of the time the arm accelerates at a constant rate (which is controlled by the slew
parameter) and at the second half of the time it deaccelerates (again at that rate, just negative), until it exactly
reaches the target pitch.

0

time
Exponential

original pitch

Linear shape
The linear algorithm simply limits the voltage change per
time to a certain change rate, e.g. to 10 V per second.
If the input voltage changes faster (for example suddenly
jumps up), the output voltage follows that with that maximum rate. At a pot position of 0.5 the maximum slew is
120 V per second.

6

There is one audible difference to a real trombone player,
however. The real musician would start to move his arm
before the new note begins, in order to be at the target
position right in time. But here the movement is initiated
by the pitch change it self so it is delayed by the slew limiting.

6
4
2

V olts

Exponential shape

S-Curve shape

2

Here is a simple example for a slew limiting on I1 −→ O1
which is controlled with the pot P1.1:
[slew]
input
= I1
slew
= P1.1
exponential = O1

6

V olts

This is a CV controllable slew limiter for
CVs. Special about it is that it implements
three alternative algorithms. The traditional exponential algorithm (as is commonly implemented in analog circuits), a
linear algorithm and a special S-shaped curve.

V olts

16.63

4
0

time

2
S-curve

0

time
Linear

DROID manual for blue-6

original pitch

original pitch

355

Table of contents at page 2

Input

Type

Default

Description
Wire the CV that you wish to slew limit here.

input (i)
slew (sw)

1.0

This controls the slew rate. A value of 0.0 disables slew limiting. The output immediately follows the input without
any delay. A value of for example 2.0 in linear mode means that 2.0 seconds are needed for a change of 1 V (which is
a value of 0.1 or one octave if used as pitch). In the other two modes the slew time is tuned to sound similar. Negative
values of this parameter are treated as 0.0.

slewup (u)

1.0

This allows a special handling when the voltage moves upwards. The slew limiting for upwards is slew multiplied
with slewup. Since slew defaults to 1.0 you can just use slewup and slewdown if you want to control both directions
separately.

slewdown (d)

1.0

Sets the slew rate for downwards movement.

gate (g)

+

Output

Type

If this jack is patched, the slew limiting is only active while this gate is high. Otherwise it’s like setting the slew parameter to zero.

Description

exponential (e)

Output for the resulting CV with the exponential (classical) slew algorithm applied

linear (l)

Output for linear slew limiting

scurve (c)

Output with the slew limitation according to the S-curve algorithm.

DROID manual for blue-6

356

Table of contents at page 2

